# Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Login Hook

## Description

Adversaries may use a Login Hook to establish persistence executed upon user logon. A login hook is a plist file that points to a specific script to execute with root privileges upon user logon. The plist file is located in the /Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist file and can be modified using the defaults command-line utility. This behavior is the same for logout hooks where a script can be executed upon user logout. All hooks require administrator permissions to modify or create hooks. [1] [2]

Adversaries can add or insert a path to a malicious script in the com.apple.loginwindow.plist file, using the LoginHook or LogoutHook key-value pair. The malicious script is executed upon the next user login. If a login hook already exists, adversaries can add additional commands to an existing login hook. There can be only one login and logout hook on a system at a time. [3] [4]

Note: Login hooks were deprecated in 10.11 version of macOS in favor of Launch Daemon and Launch Agent

---

## Mitigations

| ID | Mitigation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| M1022 | Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Restrict write access to logon scripts to specific administrators. |

---

## Detection Strategy

| ID | Name | Analytic ID | Analytic Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| DET0244 | Detection Strategy for Login Hook Persistence on macOS | AN0682 | Detection of persistent login hooks configured via defaults or plist modifications that result in execution of scripts or binaries at user login, breaking expected parent-child process lineage. |

---

## References

- [Apple. (2016, September 13). Customizing Login and Logout. Retrieved April 1, 2022.](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPSystemStartup/Chapters/CustomLogin.html)
- [Apple. (n.d.). LoginWindowScripts. Retrieved April 1, 2022.](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicemanagement/loginwindowscripts)
- [Stokes, P. (2019, July 17). How Malware Persists on macOS. Retrieved March 27, 2020.](https://www.sentinelone.com/blog/how-malware-persists-on-macos/)
- [Patrick Wardle. (n.d.). Chapter 0x2: Persistence. Retrieved April 13, 2022.](https://taomm.org/PDFs/vol1/CH%200x02%20Persistence.pdf)

---
