# Process Injection: Proc Memory

## Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the /proc filesystem in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Proc memory injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.

Proc memory injection involves enumerating the memory of a process via the /proc filesystem ( /proc/[pid] ) then crafting a return-oriented programming (ROP) payload with available gadgets/instructions. Each running process has its own directory, which includes memory mappings. Proc memory injection is commonly performed by overwriting the target processes’ stack using memory mappings provided by the /proc filesystem. This information can be used to enumerate offsets (including the stack) and gadgets (or instructions within the program that can be used to build a malicious payload) otherwise hidden by process memory protections such as address space layout randomization (ASLR). Once enumerated, the target processes’ memory map within /proc/[pid]/maps can be overwritten using dd. [1] [2] [3]

Other techniques such as Dynamic Linker Hijacking may be used to populate a target process with more available gadgets. Similar to Process Hollowing , proc memory injection may target child processes (such as a backgrounded copy of sleep). [2]

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via proc memory injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

---

## Procedure Examples

| ID | Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
| C0035 | KV Botnet Activity | KV Botnet Activity final payload installation includes mounting and binding to the \/proc\/ filepath on the victim system to enable subsequent operation in memory while also removing on-disk artifacts. [4] |

---

## Mitigations

| ID | Mitigation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| M1040 | Behavior Prevention on Endpoint | Some endpoint security solutions can be configured to block some types of process injection based on common sequences of behavior that occur during the injection process. |
| M1022 | Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Restrict the permissions on sensitive files such as /proc/[pid]/maps or /proc/[pid]/mem . |

---

## Detection Strategy

| ID | Name | Analytic ID | Analytic Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| DET0541 | Detection Strategy for /proc Memory Injection on Linux | AN1494 | Detects adversary behavior where a process enumerates and modifies another process's memory using /proc/[pid]/maps and /proc/[pid]/mem files. This includes identifying gadgets via memory mappings and overwriting process memory via low-level file modification or dd usage. |

---

## References

- [skape. (2003, January 19). Linux x86 run-time process manipulation. Retrieved December 20, 2017.](http://hick.org/code/skape/papers/needle.txt)
- [McNamara, R. (2017, September 5). Linux Based Inter-Process Code Injection Without Ptrace(2). Retrieved February 21, 2020.](https://blog.gdssecurity.com/labs/2017/9/5/linux-based-inter-process-code-injection-without-ptrace2.html)
- [Kerrisk, M. (2020, February 2). DD(1) User Commands. Retrieved February 21, 2020.](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/dd.1.html)
- [Black Lotus Labs. (2023, December 13). Routers Roasting On An Open Firewall: The KV-Botnet Investigation. Retrieved June 10, 2024.](https://blog.lumen.com/routers-roasting-on-an-open-firewall-the-kv-botnet-investigation/)

---
