# Resource Hijacking: SMS Pumping

## Description

Adversaries may leverage messaging services for SMS pumping, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. [1] SMS pumping is a type of telecommunications fraud whereby a threat actor first obtains a set of phone numbers from a telecommunications provider, then leverages a victim’s messaging infrastructure to send large amounts of SMS messages to numbers in that set. By generating SMS traffic to their phone number set, a threat actor may earn payments from the telecommunications provider. [2]

Threat actors often use publicly available web forms, such as one-time password (OTP) or account verification fields, in order to generate SMS traffic. These fields may leverage services such as Twilio, AWS SNS, and Amazon Cognito in the background. [1] [3] In response to the large quantity of requests, SMS costs may increase and communication channels may become overwhelmed. [1]

---

## Mitigations

| ID | Mitigation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| M1013 | Application Developer Guidance | Consider implementing CAPTCHA protection on forms that send messages via SMS. |

---

## Detection Strategy

| ID | Name | Analytic ID | Analytic Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| DET0156 | Detection Strategy for Resource Hijacking: SMS Pumping via SaaS Application Logs | AN0443 | Automated and repetitive triggering of SMS messages through OTP/account verification fields on SaaS platforms, leveraging background messaging APIs such as Twilio, AWS SNS, or Amazon Cognito to generate traffic toward attacker-controlled numbers. |

---

## References

- [Twilio. (2024, April 10). What Is SMS Pumping Fraud and How to Stop It. Retrieved September 25, 2024.](https://www.twilio.com/en-us/blog/sms-pumping-fraud-solutions)
- [Twilio. (n.d.). What is SMS Pumping Fraud?. Retrieved September 25, 2024.](https://www.twilio.com/docs/glossary/what-is-sms-pumping-fraud)
- [Ben Fletcher and Steve de Vera. (2024, June). New tactics and techniques for proactive threat detection. Retrieved September 25, 2024.](https://reinforce.awsevents.com/content/dam/reinforce/2024/slides/TDR432_New-tactics-and-techniques-for-proactive-threat-detection.pdf)

---
