# Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism: Setuid and Setgid

## Description

An adversary may abuse configurations where an application has the setuid or setgid bits set in order to get code running in a different (and possibly more privileged) user’s context. On Linux or macOS, when the setuid or setgid bits are set for an application binary, the application will run with the privileges of the owning user or group respectively. [1] Normally an application is run in the current user’s context, regardless of which user or group owns the application. However, there are instances where programs need to be executed in an elevated context to function properly, but the user running them may not have the specific required privileges.

Instead of creating an entry in the sudoers file, which must be done by root, any user can specify the setuid or setgid flag to be set for their own applications (i.e. Linux and Mac Permissions ). The chmod command can set these bits with bitmasking, chmod 4777 [file] or via shorthand naming, chmod u+s [file] . This will enable the setuid bit. To enable the setgid bit, chmod 2775 and chmod g+s can be used.

Adversaries can use this mechanism on their own malware to make sure they're able to execute in elevated contexts in the future. [2] This abuse is often part of a "shell escape" or other actions to bypass an execution environment with restricted permissions.

Alternatively, adversaries may choose to find and target vulnerable binaries with the setuid or setgid bits already enabled (i.e. File and Directory Discovery ). The setuid and setguid bits are indicated with an "s" instead of an "x" when viewing a file's attributes via ls -l . The find command can also be used to search for such files. For example, find / -perm +4000 2>/dev/null can be used to find files with setuid set and find / -perm +2000 2>/dev/null may be used for setgid. Binaries that have these bits set may then be abused by adversaries. [3]

---

## Procedure Examples

| ID | Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
| S0401 | Exaramel for Linux | Exaramel for Linux can execute commands with high privileges via a specific binary with setuid functionality. [4] |
| S0276 | Keydnap | Keydnap adds the setuid flag to a binary so it can easily elevate in the future. [2] |

---

## Mitigations

| ID | Mitigation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| M1028 | Operating System Configuration | Applications with known vulnerabilities or known shell escapes should not have the setuid or setgid bits set to reduce potential damage if an application is compromised. Additionally, the number of programs with setuid or setgid bits set should be minimized across a system. |

---

## Detection Strategy

| ID | Name | Analytic ID | Analytic Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| DET0110 | Setuid/Setgid Privilege Abuse Detection (Linux/macOS) | AN0307 | Correlation of chmod operations setting setuid/setgid bits followed by privileged process execution (EUID != UID), especially from user-writable or abnormal paths. |
| AN0308 | Observation of chmod commands setting setuid/setgid bits, paired with launch of binaries under elevated execution context (e.g., root-owned binaries launched by unprivileged users). |  |  |

---

## References

- [Michael Kerrisk. (2017, September 15). Linux Programmer's Manual. Retrieved September 21, 2018.](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)
- [Marc-Etienne M.Leveille. (2016, July 6). New OSX/Keydnap malware is hungry for credentials. Retrieved July 3, 2017.](https://www.welivesecurity.com/2016/07/06/new-osxkeydnap-malware-hungry-credentials/)
- [Emilio Pinna, Andrea Cardaci. (n.d.). GTFOBins. Retrieved January 28, 2022.](https://gtfobins.github.io/#+suid)
- [ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved March 30, 2021.](https://www.cert.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/CERTFR-2021-CTI-005.pdf)

---
