# Modify System Image: Patch System Image

## Description

Adversaries may modify the operating system of a network device to introduce new capabilities or weaken existing defenses. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] Some network devices are built with a monolithic architecture, where the entire operating system and most of the functionality of the device is contained within a single file. Adversaries may change this file in storage, to be loaded in a future boot, or in memory during runtime.

To change the operating system in storage, the adversary will typically use the standard procedures available to device operators. This may involve downloading a new file via typical protocols used on network devices, such as TFTP, FTP, SCP, or a console connection. The original file may be overwritten, or a new file may be written alongside of it and the device reconfigured to boot to the compromised image.

To change the operating system in memory, the adversary typically can use one of two methods. In the first, the adversary would make use of native debug commands in the original, unaltered running operating system that allow them to directly modify the relevant memory addresses containing the running operating system. This method typically requires administrative level access to the device.

In the second method for changing the operating system in memory, the adversary would make use of the boot loader. The boot loader is the first piece of software that loads when the device starts that, in turn, will launch the operating system. Adversaries may use malicious code previously implanted in the boot loader, such as through the ROMMONkit method, to directly manipulate running operating system code in memory. This malicious code in the bootloader provides the capability of direct memory manipulation to the adversary, allowing them to patch the live operating system during runtime.

By modifying the instructions stored in the system image file, adversaries may either weaken existing defenses or provision new capabilities that the device did not have before. Examples of existing defenses that can be impeded include encryption, via Weaken Encryption , authentication, via Network Device Authentication , and perimeter defenses, via Network Boundary Bridging . Adding new capabilities for the adversary’s purpose include Keylogging , Multi-hop Proxy , and Port Knocking .

Adversaries may also compromise existing commands in the operating system to produce false output to mislead defenders. When this method is used in conjunction with Downgrade System Image , one example of a compromised system command may include changing the output of the command that shows the version of the currently running operating system. By patching the operating system, the adversary can change this command to instead display the original, higher revision number that they replaced through the system downgrade.

When the operating system is patched in storage, this can be achieved in either the resident storage (typically a form of flash memory, which is non-volatile) or via TFTP Boot .

When the technique is performed on the running operating system in memory and not on the stored copy, this technique will not survive across reboots. However, live memory modification of the operating system can be combined with ROMMONkit to achieve persistence.

---

## Procedure Examples

| ID | Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
| S0519 | SYNful Knock | SYNful Knock is malware that is inserted into a network device by patching the operating system image. [6] [7] |

---

## Mitigations

| ID | Mitigation | Description |
|---|---|---|
| M1046 | Boot Integrity | Some vendors of embedded network devices provide cryptographic signing to ensure the integrity of operating system images at boot time. Implement where available, following vendor guidelines. [8] |
| M1045 | Code Signing | Many vendors provide digitally signed operating system images to validate the integrity of the software used on their platform. Make use of this feature where possible in order to prevent and/or detect attempts by adversaries to compromise the system image. [9] |
| M1043 | Credential Access Protection | Some embedded network devices are capable of storing passwords for local accounts in either plain-text or encrypted formats. Ensure that, where available, local passwords are always encrypted, per vendor recommendations. [10] |
| M1032 | Multi-factor Authentication | Use multi-factor authentication for user and privileged accounts. Most embedded network devices support TACACS+ and/or RADIUS. Follow vendor prescribed best practices for hardening access control. [11] |
| M1027 | Password Policies | Refer to NIST guidelines when creating password policies. [12] |
| M1026 | Privileged Account Management | Restrict administrator accounts to as few individuals as possible, following least privilege principles. Prevent credential overlap across systems of administrator and privileged accounts, particularly between network and non-network platforms, such as servers or endpoints. |

---

## Detection Strategy

| ID | Name | Analytic ID | Analytic Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| DET0469 | Detection Strategy for Patch System Image on Network Devices | AN1293 | Defenders may observe adversary attempts to patch system images by monitoring for anomalous file transfers (TFTP, SCP, FTP) of image files, unauthorized CLI commands altering boot system variables, integrity check mismatches between running and baseline OS images, and runtime memory manipulation attempts. Suspicious sequences include uploading a new image, modifying boot parameters, and subsequent reload/reboot of the device. In-memory patching attempts may manifest as debug commands or boot loader manipulation inconsistent with normal administrative activity. |

---

## References

- [Sebastian 'topo' Muñiz. (2008, May). Killing the myth of Cisco IOS rootkits. Retrieved October 20, 2020.](https://drwho.virtadpt.net/images/killing_the_myth_of_cisco_ios_rootkits.pdf)
- [Ang Cui, Jatin Kataria, Salvatore J. Stolfo. (2011, August). Killing the myth of Cisco IOS diversity: recent advances in reliable shellcode design. Retrieved October 20, 2020.](https://www.usenix.org/legacy/event/woot/tech/final_files/Cui.pdf)
- [George Nosenko. (2015). CISCO IOS SHELLCODE: ALL-IN-ONE. Retrieved October 21, 2020.](http://2015.zeronights.org/assets/files/05-Nosenko.pdf)
- [Felix 'FX' Lindner. (2008, February). Developments in Cisco IOS Forensics. Retrieved October 21, 2020.](https://www.recurity-labs.com/research/RecurityLabs_Developments_in_IOS_Forensics.pdf)
- [Graeme Neilson . (2009, August). Juniper Netscreen of the Dead. Retrieved October 20, 2020.](https://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-09/NEILSON/BHUSA09-Neilson-NetscreenDead-SLIDES.pdf)
- [Bill Hau, Tony Lee, Josh Homan. (2015, September 15). SYNful Knock - A Cisco router implant - Part I. Retrieved November 17, 2024.](https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/threat-intelligence/synful-knock-acis/)
- [Graham Holmes. (2015, October 8). Evolution of attacks on Cisco IOS devices. Retrieved October 19, 2020.](https://blogs.cisco.com/security/evolution-of-attacks-on-cisco-ios-devices)
- [Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - Secure Boot. Retrieved October 19, 2020.](https://tools.cisco.com/security/center/resources/integrity_assurance.html#35)
- [Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - Deploy Signed IOS. Retrieved October 21, 2020.](https://tools.cisco.com/security/center/resources/integrity_assurance.html#34)
- [Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - Credentials Management. Retrieved October 19, 2020.](https://tools.cisco.com/security/center/resources/integrity_assurance.html#40)
- [Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - TACACS. Retrieved October 19, 2020.](https://tools.cisco.com/security/center/resources/integrity_assurance.html#39)
- [Grassi, P., et al. (2017, December 1). SP 800-63-3, Digital Identity Guidelines. Retrieved January 16, 2019.](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html)

---
